# Introductions
Dr. Yasaei introduced herself, and the rest of the team gave a brief overview of their background and interests. Sree Paada Reddy Pallikila spoke of his research in data science, Kennedy Okhawere of working as a physician in the public health sector, Partha Vemuri completing his masters in data science, Brandon Knox in workforce/customer analytics, and David Kyle in programming, industrial engineering, and optimization.
# Project concept
The goal of the project is to assist doctors with quickly diagnosing patient symptoms. We are focusing on giving information to the doctor instead of competing with tools that give individuals information about their health. From Dr. Yasaei’s discussions with medical doctors, this is a pain point because of the speed at which they must work. The project will be tackled in two parts.

The first part of the project is taking in the information from the patient. When a patient comes in with a series of symptoms, not all symptoms they provide are correct as they may use the wrong names or keywords. For example, they may say they have a migraine when they actually have a headache. We want to utilize a chatbot interface that resembles the interaction a nurse or doctor has with a patient when they initially meet. The goal in this part is to get accurate symptoms and the condition of the patient. Some finer points:

- The chatbot’s language must be simple so the patient does not have to read many words, and the words should be calm and reassuring
- We will make use of a pre-trained model, with a goal of fine-tuning it to make it more personalized.
- We will consider privacy issues with relaying this information to a chatbot to be resolved (or the interactions to be local) for this proof of concept, however if we do have time to address privacy directly that would also be good.

The second part of the project involves getting information on the symptoms the patient is experiencing and the patient’s medical history. This could involve things like their blood pressure, tests they’ve had performed, and background information they have provided to their doctor previously. The most important thing is to surface the relevant information to provide to the doctor so that the doctor can give a patient diagnosis quickly. Some finer points:

- The model will research many different diseases, performing research based on symptoms and medical history provided from the patient
- Data sources include WebMD for researching symptom information, and data from a collaborative project with the college of medicine. In the long term if we want to extend this we will have to look at open source data.
- While much of the project is reliant on LLM models, a multi-modal AI may need to built to do predictions. For any non-LLM models, we will be doing the training.

These two parts - interfacing with the patient to get their information and interfacing with the doctor to summarize relevant information for diagnosis - will be tackled by splitting the team into 2 groups.
## Next steps
Our next steps will be:
- Research personal medicine and current AI/LLM models that are helping patients
- Gather existing research papers to understand how to speak with patients and the process of getting correct symptoms
- Decide where our project should start - making the most of what has already been created and building on top of it
- Look into data collection, especially from WebMD
- Have the group meet together without the professor, discuss what pieces each of us are interested in working on (based on the two main project parts described above), and create two groups
- When we meet with Dr. Yasaei next week (Feb 26th @1:30), present research information and share group allocations

**Note: current d2l project proposals are due on February 24th.**